


Dependencies.

   Make sure the following are installed or set to the correct value.

   -  sylamer
      .  GNU Scientific Library

   -  R
      .  library(R.utils)
      .  library(evd)

   -  The 'shebang' (first) lines in syl.maketable.pl and syl.master.sh.
      These are   #!/usr/local/bin/perl and #!/usr/local/bin/bash.
      If you run on a mac, you will probably need to change these to
      #!/usr/bin/perl and #!/usr/bin/bash.

   -  The sylbin setting in the script syl.master.sh. Set this to the appropriate
      location. The simplest is to simply point it to where you unpacked
      this bundle.  Via the sylbin variable, the following scripts shipped
      with this bundle are invoked by syl.master.sh:
      .  syl.master.sh
      .  syl.plot.R
      .  syl.fitevd.R
      .  syl.maketable.pl


Input requirements:

   -  fasta file     (identifiers need to match rank file)
   -  rank file      (identifiers need to match fasta file)
   -  seed sequence annotation table

      There can be missing identifiers in either fasta file or rank file, this
      is not a problem. But obviously, the identifiers need to match. E.g. gene
      symbols, Ensembl identifiers. Sylamer will report how many it found from
      the rank file in the fasta file, it is useful to check this.

      The first column of the rank file should contain the identifier. Other
      columns can be present and will be ignored. The rank file should be sorted
      in the manner that you want, sylamer will not sort it.

      The annotation table, for now, has to be provided by me. Four versions
      are shipped with the software, for human, mouse, worm and fly respectively.


Synopsis:
   syl.master.sh will do the following.
      -  sylamer is run for k=6,7,8.
      -  Markov correction by default set to 4.
      -  Plots are made for the top 3 words for each of the two y-axis regions.
            The file names will contain the string 'hltop' (highlight top).
      -  Separate plots are made for the top words from the EVD analysis.
            The file names will contain the string 'hltop' (highlight EVD).


syl.master.sh options

   -F             FORCE - IMPORTANT
                  This option is not on by default. By default, if the script
                  sees that sylamer has already been run, it will not run it
                  again.  By default it will not overwrite. With -F it will
                  overwrite.  I've made this option because normally I want to
                  rerun to finetune the plots - for that it's not necessary to
                  rerun sylamer, just to rerun the R plotting code.

                  Please note, if for some reason sylamer did not run correctly the first
                  time, and you don't use -F, then sylamer will not be run, the R plotting
                  code may find a corrupted/incomplete file, and you may get
                  strange errors. Solution: use -F.

   -r rankfile
   -f fastafile
   -d output directory

   -S <tag>       e.g. hsa, dre, cel, the 3-letter tags used by mirbase
   -t table       (provided by stijn, e.g. zebrafish.table, worm.table)

   -m 3           generally not necessary to try, but can sometimes improve plots a bit
   -m 2

   -W             TURN OFF highlighting of automatically selected words.
                  These are just the ones with best sylamer score, but could easily
                  be poly-A-related or low complexity.

   -w EM1         A list of eightmers, separated by commas. Can be just one.
   -w EM1,EM2
   -w EM1,EM2,EM3

                  This will highlight all relevant words in relevant plots. E.g. the
                  two sevenmers will be highlighted that are part of the eightmer.
                  For the sixmer, only the core sixmer 6(2) and the first sixmer 6(1A)
                  will be highlighted.

   -E <num>       The number of eightmers to pick from the EVD analysis. Default set to 3.

   -P "plot options" passed to syl.plot.R
                  For example, -P "--ymin=-25 --max=25" if your results are really good.



my workflow:

set up command in terminal:
   syl.master.sh -r mycond1.txt -S mmu -d out_cond1 -f data/mouse.fa -t data/mouse.table

once it works, copy the command to a file, e.g. DO.  Use a different output
directory for each rankfile I suggest.  DO could look like this:

   syl.master.sh -r mycond1.txt -S mmu -d out_cond1 -f data/mouse.fa -t data/mouse.table
   syl.master.sh -r mycond2.txt -S mmu -d out_cond2 -f data/mouse.fa -t data/mouse.table
   syl.master.sh -r mycond3.txt -S mmu -d out_cond3 -f data/mouse.fa -t data/mouse.table

Now, you can type in the terminal/bash

   source DO

Caveat: if there is an error in the first command, all subsequent commands will
still be attempted.  Not something to worry about, and errors won't be harmful.




